APS-2727, Added new release notes for NS to GW (#76)
bcgov/aps-infra-platform: documentation/reference/releases/2024-sept-3.0.0.md

  * The only remaining trace of Namespace is the `ns.` prefix required in tags for Gateway Service configuration (`tags: [ ns.<gatewayId> ]`).
* Gateways now feature a customizable display name.
  * This display name is prominently displayed throughout the API Services Portal. 
  * For existing Namespaces, the default display name will be `<IDIR>'s Gateway`.
* The Namespace `name` attribute has been renamed to `gatewayId` for Gateways.
  * This change aims to prevent confusion between `gatewayId` and the new `displayName` attribute for Gateways.
  * The gatewayId is still used for setting the current Gateway in the CLI (`gwa config set gateway <gatewayId>`) and in tags within Gateway Service configuration (`tags: [ ns.<gatewayId> ]`).
* Gateway selection user interface has changed.
  * A new **My Gateways** page has been added, featuring a searchable list of Gateways.
  * The Gateway dropdown selector has been relocated and updated. It now appears only on relevant API provider pages.
* New starting page for new users after API provider login.
  * Users without any Gateways are directed to https://api.gov.bc.ca/manager/gateways/get-started.

>   * This page provides a basic introduction and instructions for the new Quick Start process for API providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * This page provides a basic introduction and instructions for the new Quick Start tutorial for API providers.
```

>   * The new Quick Start tutorial offers a faster and simpler option to begin with before progressing to the [Protect an API with Client Credential Flow](https://developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/aps-infra-platform-docs/tutorials/protect-client-cred/) tutorial (previously called Quick Start). It utilizes a new `quick-start` template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The new Quick Start tutorial offers a simpler option to begin with before progressing to the [Protect an API with Client Credential Flow](https://developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/aps-infra-platform-docs/tutorials/protect-client-cred/) tutorial (previously called Quick Start). 
  * The revised Quick Start tutorial utilizes a new `quick-start` configuration template.
```

* Additional Changes:
  * Added breadcrumbs on Gateway management pages.
  * Gateways is no longer visible in the navigation bar for non-IDIR users (BCeID, BC Services Card, GitHub).
  * The **Namespace Access** page is renamed to **Administration Access**.

## GWA-CLI V3 
Gateway Command Line Interface Version 3 (GWA-CLI V3.0.1) is a new and enhanced tool for configuring your API Gateway settings. Key improvements include:

* Capability to create a gateway directly from the command line. 
* New default behaviour (`gwa gateway create`) is to autogenerate a unique `gatewayId` and prompt for a custom display name.

> * `--gateway-id` and `--display-name` can be used to specify these attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The `--gateway-id` and `--display-name` flags can be used to specify these attributes.
```

---
title: 2024-SEPT Release 3.0.0
order: 20240919
date: 2024-SEPT-19
---

# API Services Portal Release 3.0.0

> The API Services Portal has been updated with enhancements in the existing features.

Reviewer 2: Adding a little high level summary.
```suggestion
The API Services Portal has been updated with enhancements to improve the API provider experience. 
The core of these updates is the renaming of 'Namespaces' to 'Gateways' throughout the the API Services Portal.
```

  * The gatewayId is still used for setting the current Gateway in the CLI (`gwa config set gateway <gatewayId>`) and in tags within Gateway Service configuration (`tags: [ ns.<gatewayId> ]`).
* Gateway selection user interface has changed.
  * A new **My Gateways** page has been added, featuring a searchable list of Gateways.
  * The Gateway dropdown selector has been relocated and updated. It now appears only on relevant API provider pages.
* New starting page for new users after API provider login.
  * Users without any Gateways are directed to <https://api.gov.bc.ca/manager/gateways/get-started>.
  * This page provides a basic introduction and instructions for the new Quick Start tutorial for API providers.
  * The new Quick Start tutorial offers a simpler option to begin with before progressing to the [Protect an API with Client Credential Flow](https://developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/aps-infra-platform-docs/tutorials/protect-client-cred/) tutorial (previously called Quick Start).
  * The revised Quick Start tutorial utilizes a new `quick-start` configuration template.
* Additional Changes:

>   * Added breadcrumbs on Gateway management pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Not necessary

  * **Gateways** is no longer visible in the navigation bar for non-IDIR users (BCeID, BC Services Card, GitHub).
  * The **Namespace Access** page is renamed to **Administration Access**.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

!!! note "New Gateway creation"
    Whereas previously it was possible to create a new Namespace via the `gwa` CLI or API Services Portal web interface, it is now _only_ possible to create Gateways using `gwa`.

```

> ## GWA-CLI V3

Reviewer 2: As per https://dev.developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/aps-infra-platform-docs/contribute/style-guide/#use-code-style-for-gwa-command-line-tool. And then I dropped to `v` to be in line with the format for API Services Portal. Changing to v on both would also be reasonable.
```suggestion
## `gwa` CLI 3.0.1
```

> Gateway Command Line Interface Version 3 (GWA-CLI V3.0.1) is a new and enhanced tool for configuring your API Gateway settings. Key improvements include:

Reviewer 2: The supposed full name for the tool is 'gateway admin' but we never use that, only `gwa` - which is 'gwah' or 'gee-double-you-eh'
```suggestion
The `gwa` command line tool has been updated to support the changes to the API Services Portal, along with additional improvements to support Gateway Service configuration.
```

> * Capability to create a gateway directly from the command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This is not new.

* New default behaviour (`gwa gateway create`) is to autogenerate a unique `gatewayId` and prompt for a custom display name.

> * The `--gateway-id` and `--display-name` flags can be used to specify these attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Too much detail for here.

> * Improvements to error reporting for Gateway Service publication (`gwa apply` and `gwa publish-gateway`). Additional error messaging is shown by default to support troubleshooting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improvements to error reporting for Gateway Service publication (`gwa apply` and `gwa publish-gateway`) to support troubleshooting.
```

> * Improvements to Gateway Service configuration creation using templates (`gwa generate-config`). Gateway `service` and `route` names are validated for availability during configuration creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improvements to Gateway Service configuration creation using templates (`gwa generate-config`). 
  * Gateway `service` and `route` names are validated for availability during configuration creation.
```

> * Templates for implementing common authorization patterns on the API Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This is not new. There is a new template `quick-start` but it's captured above in Portal.

  * The Gateway dropdown selector has been relocated and updated. It now appears
    only on relevant API provider pages.
* New starting page for new users after API provider login.
  * Users without any Gateways are directed to <https://api.gov.bc.ca/manager/gateways/get-started>.
  * This page provides a basic introduction and instructions for the new Quick
    Start tutorial for API providers.
  * The new Quick Start tutorial offers a simpler option to begin with before
    progressing to the [Protect an API with Client Credential Flow](https://developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/aps-infra-platform-docs/tutorials/protect-client-cred/)
    tutorial (previously called Quick Start).
  * The revised Quick Start tutorial utilizes a new `quick-start` configuration
  template.
* Additional Changes:
  * **Gateways** is no longer visible in the navigation bar for non-IDIR users
    (BCeID, BC Services Card, GitHub).
  * The **Namespace Access** page is renamed to **Administration Access**.

!!! Note:- "New gateway creation"

* Whereas previously it was possible to create a new Namespace via the `gwa`
CLI or API Services Portal web interface, it is now _only_ possible to create

> Gageways using `gwa`.

Reviewer 2: This formatting will not work and also breaks with the style guide. Same with the changes you made to the `!!! note` line. Please use the changes I provided before as is and review the style guide for usage on callouts https://dev.developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/aps-infra-platform-docs/contribute/style-guide/#callouts
Previewing locally will reveal these issues or if syntax is correct.

You also have a typo and wrote 'Gageways'
